We have the create user schema,
let's now work on a resolver that allows us to create a user and for that in the resolvers file, I'll add
create user like that
and now here I actually get some arguments,
you also do so in queries where you get data by the way,
there you could also get arguments for example when you want to retrieve a specific post with a specific
ID.
Here my arguments are no post ID though
but the user input data.
My first argument there will be an args object,
there is a second argument available which is the request by the way,
this will become important later. Now on the incoming args object, I can retrieve all the data I defined
in my schema,
so email, name and password, that is my argument data
so that is what I can retrieve from the args object.
Not directly on the args though,
instead args will have a user input field because args actually will be an object containing all the
arguments passed to that function,
here it's only one but it could be more,
so args will have a user input field and in there, I will have email, name and password. So I can retrieve
them,
I can for example retrieve my email by typing args user input because in my schema, I name this field
here user input and on the user input, I can get the email,
so .email like this.
This is one option,
we can also use destructuring to get user input out of my args object
and then the email will just be user input email,
so a bit shorter. Now we'll use this in a second,
first of all let's import the mongoose user model
because I'll still interact with the database of course.
So I will require models user and then in here, I want to use the async await syntax, to use that I
need to change the way I write this method.
I add a colon after create user and use the function keyword
and now I can add async in front of that.
So now I can use async await, that is purely optional though,
you could also use the normal then catch approach with your promises. Now in there,
first of all I want to find out if that user already exists and for that, I'll get an existing user by
awaiting for user find one where the email in the database matches the email entered in the user
input.
Now one super important note, if you're not using async await, you need to return your find one query
which you're executing here where you then add then because if you don't return your promise in the
resolver, graphql will not wait for it to resolve. When using async await, it's automatically returned
for you,
we don't see the return statement here but it is there,
so that is super important.
So now I'm getting my existing user and if I have an existing user, well then I know I don't want to
create a new one.
So in this case, I will create a new error with a message of user exists already and I will throw that
error and I will come back to error handling and graphql in a later lecture.
If I do have no existing user with that email address,
then I can continue with storing it and the logic for that is similar to the one in my auth controller,
we need bcrypt to hash the password.
So in my resolver function here, let me import bcrypt at the top and then there, we can use the hash
method to hash the user input password with 12 salting rounds.
Now again I'll use async await here,
so I'll get my hashed password eventually after awaiting for this to finish.
Now after I got that, I can create a new user object and in that user object, I will pass the email which
is user input email, I'll pass the name which is user input name,
I'll also pass the password which is my hashed password.
Now I need to save that to the database and I do care about the created user, so I'll store that, stored
all that created user in a constant by awaiting for a user save and that will just return that
user object
I created. Now here finally I need to return some data and we see which data in our schema, we need to
return a user object.
For that here, I will return my created user_doc field which contains just the user data without
all the metadata
mongoose would add otherwise and I will override the _id field by adding it as a separate
property and therefore it will override the one I'm pulling out of
_doc because I need to convert it from an object id field to a string field
otherwise it will fail,
so here I will access created user _id and then call toString.
This is now the user object
I'm returning when I'm creating a user.
Now one important note before we actually try that in our frontend application.
We can of course try that from inside postman but there is an even more convenient solution for testing
this. Before I show you the solution,
let me first of all clean my database though
so that we start from scratch
and before that, I'll delete both my posts and my users collection here.
It will be created on the fly again
once I got data to enter and I simply want to remove all entries I have thus far.
So now with the clean database,
let me show you that simpler approach I'm referring to. To test this mutation,
I can go back to app.js on the backend code and there where I register or setup my graphql
endpoint, besides setting the schema and root value,
you can also set graphiql, written graphiql to true.
This gives you a special tool and this is the reason why I'm not listening for post requests only
here because now with your running server,
try visiting localhost8080/graphql and this will send a get request, if you enter something in
the browser here here, you sent a get request and you will get this screen which allows you to play around
with your graphql API.
Now if you go back to your backend, to the schema, quickly add a query again to your schema here, root
query and let's
create that type here real quick and in there, just add that hello again like this.
We don't need a resolver for that,
we just need that query.
Now if you reload your graphiql interface, you actually have that documentation on the right here where
you see the operations you can do but you need to have a query defined for that, even if it leads into
the void
and there you can click onto it to see which mutations you have, which data you need to send and so on
and you can not just explore that here,
you can even send your data. So in here, you can now create a new mutation about typing mu and you
will even get autocompletion,
then curly braces and now with control space,
you even get suggestions, if you have more than one object, it will not be filled in automatically but you'll
get a dropdown instead,
you get suggestions for what you can run and here you now see
this needs a user input then a colon and then an object that contains the user input data
and there you see we need an email wrapped in double quotation marks,
test@test.com,
we let's say need a name, that could be max and we need the password and that is tester and thereafter
we add a pair of curly braces
and now we can define the data we want to return after this query is done. With control space
we get some suggestions,
like the ID that was generated or the email. And now you can run this query by pressing that play button
up there or hitting control enter,
you also see the commands here
and this will now execute it and it seemed to have succeeded.
You see the ID of the created user and the email and if you go back to mongodb compass and you
refresh that
here, you should have the users collection back and you see the user in there with the hashed password.
So this is a great tool for playing around, better than postman because you got this nice interactive
support with the auto-completion,
you've got the documentation here and you can test your graphql query in this tool in a really nice
way.
And now with that, let's see how we can enhance this for example by adding validation before we then
also connect our frontend application of course.